Gnoll Adventures:


Monster Theory
	The problem with making a game with monstrous protagonists is that it can easily devalue that monstrosity by making it seem normal. Just making an ordinary dungeon crawler RPG with monster sprites instead of human sprites is not worth the trouble. The game system and story need to use that monstrosity and accentuate it rather than trying to play it down or ignore it. Here are some notes on the subject

	essentially, being a monster is about freedom. Not the relative kind of freedom that you only have because of someone else allows you to have it, with lots of provisos and implied limits. I mean real freedom, and with real freedom, having the freedom to do something is the same thing as having the power to do it. But people want to believe that they are acting freely and independently, so they let themselves be told that they're only being nice and accomodating because that's how they want to be. When people think that way, freedom seems tame and friendly. But when you look at it without the rosy glasses, its obvious that freedom is something inherently frightening, dangerous, evil,... monstrous.

Notes:
	1. The essence of monstrosity is uniqueness and individualism. in the case of the true monster, it means absolute independence. this is the absolute opposite of christian morals, and even aetheists consider this to be the definition of evil. It is not really an irrational position, but it is absolutely anti-social. The monster does whatever he pleases, and thereby makes a god of himself. The monster might pursue knowledge and control over others, like Yashjiras, or he might just live in a cave and eat people who come to close. either way, as long as it does not admit the validity of any moral edict originating outside itself, it is a monster.
	2. Monsters are symbolically represented as possessing unique and dangerous physical forms, usually representative of the characteristics of the monster's philosophy. For instance, a bestial creature that exists only to feed might appear as a monstrous, bloated swine, while a cunning and subtle character like Yashjiras often appears as a sleek and agile Reptile.
	3. Sometimes monsters appear in groups, usually as a small band of feuding individuals (like tolkiens trolls). weak monsters will sometimes form swarms (skaven). If they form groups of any kind of organization, it is usually only because some pressing danger forces them to. A powerful leader or an obvious external threat could cause this. However, the monsters are never devoted to the group or the leader directly, but only indirectly and insofar as the leader or group serves his interests (in the case of the leader, "serving his interests" might mean "letting him live")
	4. Monsters do not appear to have the same motives as civilized people, at least in the short term. People must get what they want in very complex and circuitous ways. as civilization increases, the process of actually getting what one wants becomes very complex and entangled, sometimes to the point of obscuring the ultimate goal. More important than the method (which, as shown by the case of Yashjiras, might end up using other people's civilizations as tools) is the mentality. Monsters are always clear about the final goal, and do not feel the need to dissimulate or justify anything to themselves, whereas a large part of the drama of civilization comes from the necessity of hiding one's deepest motives from others and putting on a mask of altruism, sometimes to the point of deceiving oneself. This is why Nietzche attributes a love of honesty to the aristocracy (who share many of the traits of monsters by virtue of setting themselves apart from "the masses"), and states that all aristocracies have always believed that the common folk were dishonest.
	5. Getting away from abstract philosophy, video game monsters are always made to be beaten, and so seem expendable. in movies about monsters, a single monster usually kills many humans before it is itself killed. Obviously, the type of monster is important, and since the essence of monstrosity is uniqueness, you can't very well lay out a general law. However, we might suggest that a protagonist monster should be more unique.
	6. Monsters have many anti-social habits. these are not restricted to killing and eating humans, though obviously things are more anti-social the closer they draw the line of "the other" to themselves. most people would draw the line at sentient and non-sentient. some barbaric races draw it at, say, orcs and non-orcs. very unscrupulous and depraved groups break it down into "us" and "them", and the true monster defines it as "me" and "the rest of you". There is usually some kind of gradation of course. most people, for instance, treat non-sentient animals better than non-conscious trees, and non-conscious trees better than non-living rocks, even though they consider killing and eating animals to be okay and don't think of them as having any rights or kinship. Consequently, something is more monstrous if it hurts things closer to sharing its own nature. gnolls that don't eat other gnolls are more "human" than gnolls that kill and eat anything and anyone.
	7. There is something especially horrifying to people about monsters that are consciously monstrous. sharks, for instance, kill and eat other sharks, and though this is a typically monstrous behavior, the sharks are not conscious of the fact that they are transgressing some kind of moral law. If a human turns on his own kind, this is worse because the human could choose to be otherwise, and knows very well that he could choose otherwise. Even a cannibalistic gnoll, who could certainly reform, might not be consciously monstrous. maybe it just never occurred to him that he was in need of reform since that is how he's always been and "all the other gnolls do it too" and thus it seems natural. this is why degeneration into monstrosity is usually more horrifying than being born a monster, and a civilized person can think of a tiger or shark as being good or beautiful more easily than they can think of a lich or homocidal maniac being so. This is probably the key difference between Yashjiras and Irythcalix. Yashjiras knows why humans do what they do, but he has no personal experience of it, while Irythcalix was a divine being before he fell and experienced that sort of emotion first hand. As long as this is true, Yashjiras still seems less evil than Irythcalix, and the Raktari in general seem less truly evil than other races whose objective actions are much less terrible.
	8. I have an idea for my next game that will focus more on gnolls doing evil stuff. But right now we need to focus on gnoll raider. I think the new setting is going to help, but we need to change directions. Recently our writings have taken a turn for the humane, trying to justify the monstrosity of the gnolls and rehabilitate them. we "could" still do that, but if we do we will definitely lose the monstrosity aspect and potentially make the gnolls into nothing but aesthetically altered humans. That is unless we do something to dramatically emphasize their physiological differences, which might be problematic if we're making a traditional RPG.
	9. Now, the reason I even bother bringing this up is because I want to make a game in which the players feel like they are playing monsters.
	10. part of the point of monsters is that they eschew much of the social machinery that allows humans to live as they do. without the social contract and its attendant division of labor, the cast of supporting characters is limited and the motive for interactions with npcs is limited. stronger monsters, including more powerful gnolls, can demand that the players serve them, maybe in exchange for favors. a very few specialists exist in gnoll society, notably witchdoctors, and after all gnolls are not perfect monsters. the paths of warrior and skulker might be seen as specialization, but they do not rely on each other. the gnolls should be comfortable without a home base or a well manned support staff. gnolls might take advantage of markets and cities to get better gear and cash in their loot, but its out of character for a group like the khurikash clan to maintain one. ultimately, gnolls should rely primarily on their own strength and the strength of chosen few that they allow to accompany them.
	11. In game terms, you must reward desired behaviors in-game. eating corpses, for instance, is the only way to recover energy and has no drawbacks, so will always be indulged except for instances of corpse-hoarding, which is a valid strategy.
	
	
Gnoll Motives:
	We have discussed this problem elsewhere. Reflecting on experience, it seems that really it is not surprising that monsters rarely drive the plot. Generally, a monster creates the plot by threatening something dear to the protagonist. Grendel, for instance, only wanted food, so snuck into hrothgar's feasthall to eat his soldiers. Beowulf was the one, however, who ended up having the adventure. Beowulf actually ended up doing basically the same kind of activity, the literary difference being mainly that grendel had no challenge until beowulf suddenly defeated him, while beowulf had to go through a series of challenges before seizing victory. Gnolls similarly desire food and gold, but if we want to get anything like an interesting story, these must not be easily satisfied. Alternatively, the gnolls may have long-term goals that go beyond the bare necessities of survival. The Gnolls may feel threatened by adventurers or humans encroaching on their lands, and decide to go on the offensive before they are forced into a corner. Its also possible that the story revolves around a particular band motivated by a superior's personal ambitions. These may change as superiors are deposed.
	
Ideas for Monster Dungeons: 
	1. Reverse Dungeon Crawler:
		In this game, you control the dungeon and the monsters and have to defend against adventurers. This gameplay, of course, is completely incompatible with the existing gnoll raider, but might be interesting to do in the future.
	2. Emphasis on Raiding:
		Try to simulate actual raids on settlements like monsters would. The funny thing about this is that when the protagonists are on the offensive, the game is spent mostly in enemy territory, which means most of the game will be spent in lands held by the good-guys. thus the aesthetic will be whatever the rakasha and humans use, instead of the gnolls. Maybe this is a good thing, because the whole "gnoll village" thing was a little awkward. the gnolls seemed too much like hairy humans. 
	3. Tribal Warfare:
		Instead of raiding humans (or in addition to raiding humans), the gnolls might fight rival monsters.
	4. Set in pre-yahazeer Umara
		This is an actual idea for gnoll raider. In this case, the gnolls are trying to build a base (yahazeer) and have to contest the tunnels with existing occupants. 
	5. "Monsters" not gnolls
		We could ease the awkwardness by advertising the game as being a "monster" adventure rather than being specifically about gnolls. Actually, I want to make a note about this that I was thinking of earlier. I've always liked tribes (as in a tribal MTG deck), but on reflection, tribes have a negative effect on gameplay from a design perspective. What is good about tribes is really the aesthetic, and it doesn't feel right to force a player to choose between having matching units and an actual bonus. So, if I made a game where you could have different monsters and stuff, I would try to (mostly) separate aesthetics from gameplay. I don't like giving people tons of visual options that all mean nothing but look like they should mean something, so probably it will have some effect, but it won't be a question of putting an orc in an otherwise all-gnoll party because gnolls don't have artillery or whatever. I would let people pick a global race, which would have global effects (like all units get +1 scavenge if they're gnolls). there might be some special cases where a race might have an exclusive unit or something, but generally...
	6. "Umara Races" including gnolls
		We could accept that gnolls in umara/kaiya have a slightly different status than gnolls usually do. Although generally disliked by their neighbors, they are not really considered monsters, since they have cities and governments and are willing to be peaceful and conduct trade sometimes. In future games, including the games from the canon story arc, gnolls will probably appear as a playable race and/or some available party-members will be gnolls. 
	7. Gnolls only good for single-player?
		So I had this other idea for a different gnoll game. You wouldn't have a party (having a party of equals is what humans and civilized people do), you would have the slaves and mercenaries you pressed into service or bought. If you had too many or treated them too badly, they would revolt. If you were weakened to where they thought they could overpower you or run away, they would attack or desert. even the mercenaries would attack you or desert if things went badly enough. You could eat slaves for provisions, and if you ever got an enemy weak enough, you could either kill them or enslave them, and if you kill anything you can eat it. You would have other things you could do to manage your servants, like picking conversation (some things might be tagged "assertive/meek", "brute-force/subtle", "ruthless/merciful", "short-term,long-term" etc.) options that your slaves liked, keeping slaves that were compatible, making one slave a favorite. it would actually be a lot like managing population in shogun: you would have personal loyalty (stockholm syndrome or just being okay with slavery) and fear. loyalty would be hard to get: you'd have to have a slave that liked your style and build up his loyalty slowly, but the slave would be more likely to stick with you. fear would be easy: turn on "death-threats" and "beatings" and make brutal examples of other slaves, but if you're weakened there's nothing left to fear and they can attack (with a vengeance if course) and no amount of fear will stop a slave from making a break for it if he thinks he can get away. its easy to make yourself feared, hard to make yourself loved, and hardest to make yourself feared and loved (you have to trade in all your loyalty for fear, then build it all the way back up). masochistic (whose loyalty is more easily increased than fear) or naturally rebellious slaves (who never accept their condition no matter how well you treat them) mix things up a bit.
	8.Inverse Dungeoneering V2
		So, what if the world was made up of various dungeons, but different factions took turns taking control of them? You would have to gradually build up your influence
		
		STOP: make a new document. This Idea Works
			