The Gripe

Alright, its time for someone to fess up. Something is seriously wrong here, and I'm going to get to the bottom of it.

Problem I: What Happened to the Story?
	As I recall, we started writing this game because we thought we could write the story based game that real game companies are too profit-motivated to write. But after working on the game for about a year (one half of one year, one half of another), the story has yet to appear. So where is it? What are you doing to get it into the game?
	Well, the biggest reason we can't add the story is because basic gameplay is still too bad to actually play. Since the story has to take place between dungeons, its a little problematic if there aren't any dungeons to have things between them. Thats covers pretty much everything, really. Its too bad that we have to finish writing the engine before we can get to the fun part, but if you want a game thats fun to play you've got to put up with it. 
	
Problem II: What is this mess?!?!
	Where did these swarms of random monsters come from? What are all these random mazes doing in my story-based video game? Are we still going to have character dialogue or are we writing a dungeon crawler?
	Well, I hate to say it, but probably the game isn't going to be as story driven as we wanted it to be. Not that it won't have a story or anything, but it seems like multiplayer and NPC dialogue don't mix well. That's sort of a downer, because I was really looking forward to developing my NPCs, but lets face it: multiplayer games aren't single player games, and what works in one doesn't work in the other. One of those things is NPC dialogue. its a one-on-one kind of thing, and it just isn't the same with five other guys hovering around waiting for their turn to talk to the NPC. people play multiplayer games differently than they play single player games. I know that whenever I play a game by myself, I explore everything. In multiplayer games, I never get to explore anything, because I want to stick with the group. Team strategy games need a variety of challenges that force them to strategize and work together. Such games demand in-depth combat and well-designed dungeons. 
	The hard truth is that team-based strategy games can't be easily combined with intrigue-heavy dialogue driven adventure games. I want to do both, but gnoll raider can only be one. The gameplay is mutually exclusive, and features from each do not cross over well. If you're fighting, you're not talking, and the loot you get from killing stuff is different from the plot advancements and social status you earn from chatting it up with the locals. 
	
Conclusion: Looks to me like gnoll raider is going to be a multiplayer dungeon crawler, for better or worse. I hope its a good one, but that won't stop it from being a dungeon crawler. Will it have a plot? of course, but right now it doesn't look like much of the game is going to involve players wandering around exploring the world and talking to NPCs. This means the story is going to have to be presented a little more aggressively (linearly), and probably there won't be any branching plotlines or anything like that. Maybe when I finish gnoll raider I'll write an adventure game.