Arena Opponents

Auraksha: Once a respected warrior known for his fearless assaults, this hulking rakasha was cast out by his pride after the signs of leprosy began to manifest themselves. Now he lives alone and forsaken in the dismal waste, turning his hatred on all who encounter him.

Saurasha:

Keekarak: One of the last surviving warriors of the enigmatic Skarzaki Clan, Keekarak is heir to their legendary criminal arts. In hopes of taking his revenge against the Taurash who destroyed his clan, he now wields clo.

Shizara: A matriarch of the khurikash clan, Shizara was recruited by vazahai while commanding a force of Ingaru mercenaries. Ruthless and cunning, she was one of the few warriors even vazahai was known to fear.

Yazirak: one of only a handful of gnolls to have been educated in raktarath, The enigmatic Yazirak wields

Ashras Sithrai: As the right hand of the Diabolical Yashjiras Sarai, Ashras Sithrai is rightly feared as an accomplice in the annihilation of nations. Ashras' greatest power lies in his subtle tongue and cunning schemes, but despite his frail physical form, his mastery of the dark arts and multiple diabolic pacts make him an 

"The Zakasi are a species of bipedal hyenas, known for their "

"...The zakasi species is not native to Kaiya. During the Aruun Wars, many clans accompanied their Warakh Overlords. In the chaos following the final battle of Iabanu, these clans turned upon their former masters, and then scattered into the desert. Since that time, these kaiyan zakasi have become acclimated to their new home and are now found spread throughout the northlands."

"The two largest groups of kaiyan zakasi are the red zakasi and the grey zakasi. differing in ancestry and territory, the two are visibly distinct. The former, hailing originally from the garuvan flatlands, are characterized by brown fur and superior size and strength, while the latter, deriving from the garuvan jungle clans, are smaller and quicker, with pelts of greyish hue."

"The Grey Zakasi Nomads travel the breadth of kaiya, from the steppes of Yafara to the Deserts of Kakila. Though little trusted by their settled neighbors, the information and diversions offered by these well-traveled zakasi has allowed them access to regions beyond the reach of their more warlike cousins."

"While traveling in the west, many of these nomadic clans have had contact with the enigmatic inhabitants of raktarath. Those clans coming under their influence have suffered lasting and significant changes to their language, culture, outlook and weaponry. Rumors of some of these clans performing secret rituals and possessing dark knowledge are widespread, but the flimsy evidence on which such rumors are founded have ensured that their reputations as thieves and con-artists have generally had a greater impact on their diplomatic standing." 

"The Skarzaki Clan is particularly shunned, as people tend to mysteriously vanish wherever they go, and the frequent accusations of demon-worship, though never proven, are persistent. Despite the fear and loathing they have come to inspire, their contacts in the criminal underworld and unique services have allowed them to thrive. According to the Skarzaki themselves, their clan first received knowledge of the arts of murder and sabotage in exchange for blood oaths and promises of human sacrifice to a Raktarath Lord."

"Sarithas Ashras Sithrai commands immense respect and fear by virtue of his status as second-in-command to Yashjiras Sarai. House Sithrai has only recently come under the vassalage of the Most Ancient House of Sarai, but already they have proven themselves to be among its finest agents. In addition to his exalted rank as a Sarithas of House Sarai, Ashras is also a master of the dark arts, and the foremost candidate for appointment to the Necrarch Council upon the ultimate failure of his physical form."

""
