So if anyone asks about "ninja gnolls" this is what you say:

First, though ninjas are arguably the most notable instance of it, the phenomenon of elite criminal forces appearing in societies with rigid social classes and widespread oppression is not limited to Japan by any means. The story of the italian mafia, for instance, is very similar to that of the ninja clans. The roman empire was plagued by guerillas in the outlying provinces, and the fierce welsh resistance to expanding english power is likely the origin of the Robin Hood legends. One would even be justified in placing modern terrorists in this category. The Gnolls of Umara, while not technically subjects of the Taurash, are in a poor position to use either open force or diplomacy against them, yet their current situation is intolerable to them.
The "ninja gnolls" referred to are probably skarzaki clan skulkers. The skarzaki clan is special, if not unique, in its possession of an assassin tradition. However, this is neither an accident nor a reference to feudal japan, but a sign of its dark connections to the raktari. The Skarzaki clan has long been an object of fear and persecution in the regions it has been known to haunt. While the clan tries to keep its affiliation with House Sithrai a secret, enough information has leaked out over the years, leading to a cloud of sinister rumors. These rumors are vague and frequently embellished if not outright fabricated, but the rumor mongers are closer to the truth than they realize themselves. Like many grey zakasi clans, the skarzaki has traveled far in its nomadic wandering, and has found itself west of the great mountains more than once. On one of these excursions, the skarzaki encountered a raktari sorcerer, the then Lord Sithrai Asharas, in the guise of a wandering ascetic. In a fateful meeting, Asharas offered to teach them the ways of stealth and murder, in exchange for a blood oath from the entire clan. Accepting the infernal bargain, the skarzaki were inducted into the psychic fief of house sithrai, and to this day every newborn skarzaki child is consecrated at birth to the service of the lords of Sithrai. In return for this, the sorcerer kept his word and handed down to them some of the secrets of the sassari. The black suits, cloaks, and skull-masks are a crude attempt emulate the traditional gear of vedraitian assassins.
The very few kaiyan zakasi have access to the metallurgical traditions needed to craft swords with the quality of japanese or late european blades, and those who do favor the traditional sickle-sword of the kakila clans. I don't intentionally draw them like katanas, they just come out that way sometimes. 
